  * 상위 항목 : [스타바운드](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C.md)  

**게임 스타바운드의 세부항목들**

**등장 종족**
[에이펙스](%EC%97%90%EC%9D%B4%ED%8E%99%EC%8A%A4.md)([아이템](%EC%97%90%EC%9D%B4%ED%8E%99%EC%8A%A4/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[아비안](%EC%95%84%EB%B9%84%EC%95%88.md)([아이템](%EC%95%84%EB%B9%84%EC%95%88/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[플로란](%ED%94%8C%EB%A1%9C%EB%9E%80.md)([아이템](%ED%94%8C%EB%A1%9C%EB%9E%80/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[글리치](%EA%B8%80%EB%A6%AC%EC%B9%98%28%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C%29.md)([아이템](%EA%B8%80%EB%A6%AC%EC%B9%98%28%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C%29/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[인간](%EC%9D%B8%EA%B0%84%28%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C%29.md)([아이템](%EC%9D%B8%EA%B0%84%28%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C%29/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[하이로틀](%ED%95%98%EC%9D%B4%EB%A1%9C%ED%8B%80.md)([아이템](%ED%95%98%EC%9D%B4%EB%A1%9C%ED%8B%80/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[노바키드](%EB%85%B8%EB%B0%94%ED%82%A4%EB%93%9C.md)([아이템](%EB%85%B8%EB%B0%94%ED%82%A4%EB%93%9C/%EC%95%84%EC%9D%B4%ED%85%9C.md))

[그외 종족](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EA%B7%B8%EC%99%B8%20%EC%A2%85%EC%A1%B1.md)

**세계관**
[기후](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EA%B8%B0%ED%9B%84.md)

[소기후](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%86%8C%EA%B8%B0%ED%9B%84.md)

[날씨](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%82%A0%EC%94%A8.md)

[몬스터](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AA%AC%EC%8A%A4%ED%84%B0.md)

[퀘스트](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%ED%80%98%EC%8A%A4%ED%8A%B8.md)

[미션](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AF%B8%EC%85%98.md)

[문서](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C.md)

[마을과 던전](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%A7%88%EC%9D%84%EA%B3%BC%20%EB%8D%98%EC%A0%84.md)

**아이템**
[블록](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%B8%94%EB%A1%9D.md)

[가구](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EA%B0%80%EA%B5%AC.md)

[갑옷](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EA%B0%91%EC%98%B7.md)([의상](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%9D%98%EC%83%81.md))

[소모품](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%86%8C%EB%AA%A8%ED%92%88.md)

[도구](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%8F%84%EA%B5%AC.md)

[무기](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B4%EA%B8%B0.md)

[악기](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%95%85%EA%B8%B0.md)

[재료](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%9E%AC%EB%A3%8C.md)

**그외 세부항목**
[업데이트 내역](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EC%97%85%EB%8D%B0%EC%9D%B4%ED%8A%B8%20%EB%82%B4%EC%97%AD.md)

[우주선](%EC%9A%B0%EC%A3%BC%EC%84%A0%28%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C%29.md)

[모드](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AA%A8%EB%93%9C.md)

[플레이 팁](%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B4%EB%93%9C/%ED%8C%81.md)

![http://starbounder.org/mediawiki/images/thumb/7/7c/Codex.png/500px-Codex.png
width=400](http://starbounder.org/mediawiki/images/thumb/7/7c/Codex.png/500px-
Codex.png)

[[PNG external
image]](http://starbounder.org/mediawiki/images/thumb/7/7c/Codex.png/500px-
Codex.png)

스타바운드에는 여행중에 입수할수 있는 다양한 문서들이 있으며  
이 문서에는 기본 조작법부터 여러 종족들의 역사, 이야기등이 담겨있다.  
문서는 화면 오른쪽의 책모양 또는 L 버튼을 눌러 볼 수 있다.

[스타바운드 공식 위키](http://starbounder.org/Main_Page)의 코덱항목에 모두 정리되어있다.  
영어 잘하는 위키니트들은 번역해서 올려주자.

본 항목은 종족과 문서획득장소에 따라 분류한다.

## Contents

    

1. 일반 항목 
2. Apex 항목 
    

2.1. 에이펙스 실험동(Apex Test Chambers)

    

2.1.1. Incarcerus Notes 1 ~ 11

2.2. 에이펙스 연구시설(Apex Facilities)

    

2.2.1. Blog of a Lab Assistant 1 ~ 10

2.2.2. A Ludicrous Annoyance

2.2.3. A Scribbled Note

2.2.4. Greenfinger's Notes: Loose Ends

2.3. 에이펙스 아파트(Apex Apartments)

    

2.3.1. An Apex Advert

2.3.2. Big Ape

2.3.3. The Steel Casebook: Apex

2.3.4. A Folk Tale

2.3.5. Friends to the End

2.3.6. An Apex Headline

2.3.7. Minutes of a Meeting

2.3.8. A Pleasant Town

2.3.9. An Apex Poster

2.3.10. Miniknog Problems: A Report

2.3.11. La Resistance

2.3.12. Child's Rhyme

2.3.13. The Silly Miniknog

3. Avian 항목 
    

3.1. 아비안 마을(Avian Vilages)

    

3.1.1. The Kluex Delusion

3.2. 아비안 비행정(Avian Airships)

    

3.2.1. An Avian Air Shanty

3.2.2. Journal of a Mechanic 1 ~ 6

3.2.3. Fight or Flight

3.2.4. Journal of a Hero

3.2.5. The Iron Avian

3.2.6. Mallard Reynolds' Diary

3.2.7. Avian Power Crystals

3.2.8. Seasick

3.3. 아비안 탑(Avian Towers)

3.4. 아비안 신전(Avian Temples)

3.5. 아비안 무덤(Avian Tomb)

4. Floran 항목 
    

4.1. 플로란 마을(Floran Vilages)

4.2. 플로란 토굴(Floran Dungeon)

5. Glitch 항목 
    

5.1. 글리치 성(Glitch Castle)

    

5.1.1. The Would-Be King 1 ~ 6

5.1.2. The Curious Glitch

5.1.3. A Well-Folded Note

5.1.4. Guest in the Castle

5.1.5. A Message to all Glitch Guards

5.1.6. A Slight Misunderstanding

5.1.7. The Prefix Problem

5.2. 글리치 마을(Glitch Vilages)

    

5.2.1. A handwritten note

5.2.2. A note on Glitch Outcasts

5.2.3. A pamphlet with a footprint on it

5.2.4. Transcript 0292

5.2.5. Transcript 0293

5.2.6. A note on Glitch Individuals

5.2.7. A Glitch poster

5.2.8. A note on Glitch Hierarchy

5.2.9. Excerpt 1 from The Steel Casebook

5.2.10. Excerpt 2 from The Steel Casebook

5.2.11. Excerpt 3 from The Steel Casebook

5.2.12. Excerpt 4 from The Steel Casebook

6. Human 항목 
    

6.1. USCM 교도소(USCM Prison)

    

6.1.1. The Steel Casebook: Prisoners 1 ~ 11

6.1.2. Ghosts in the Walls

6.2. USCM 지하기지(USCM Base)

    

6.2.1. USCM Personnel Log 12572

6.2.2. USCM Personnel Log 54126

6.2.3. USCM Personnel Log 58719

6.2.4. USCM Personnel Log 58991

6.2.5. USCM Personnel Log 60102

6.2.6. USCM Personnel Log 99999

6.2.7. A New Policy

6.2.8. Greenfinger's Notes: Humans

6.2.9. Greenfinger's Notes: The Beast

6.2.10. Bunker Busters

6.2.11. USCM Field Handbook

6.2.12. Subject: Standing Orders

7. Hylotl 항목 
8. 미션 항목 
    

8.1. Erchius Mining Facility

9. Boss 
    

9.1. Erchius Horror

9.2. Dreadwing the Penguin

9.3. Shockhopper Mech Mk I

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=1)]

## 1. 일반 항목 ¶

  * Control Yourself  
기본적인 조작법이 담겨있는 문서. "당신이 은하를 탐색할때 도움을 주기위해 가이드를 준비했습니다"  
라는 내용과 조작법이 설명되있다.  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=2)]

## 2. Apex 항목 ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=3)]

### 2.1. 에이펙스 실험동(Apex Test Chambers) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=4)]

#### 2.1.1. Incarcerus Notes 1 ~ 11 ¶

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 1   

> Day One. The inmates are doing well. There had been some in-fighting, but
this was quickly tempered with some short blasts of cold water. Observing the
chatter, it is surprisingly how quickly the Miniknog soldiers are adapting to
life behind bars.

  
  

> The Apex citizens are not adopting their guard roles quite so easily. They
are hesitant, unsure of themselves, and unwilling to assert their authority
over the prisoners. This is interesting, as my original hypothesis predicted
that the citizens would quickly turn on the Miniknog.

  
  

> Perhaps current Miniknog methods are fully effective in conditioning the
citizens to obey. Perhaps Big Ape is wrong to be concerned. But still, this is
only day one of the experiment, and a lot could change.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 2   

> The Miniknog are beginning to gain control of the experiment. Despite having
taken on the role of prisoners, the dynamic is very clear. They do what they
want, and in some cases even tell the citizens - the guards - what to do. It
is very interesting to observe.

  
  

> Earlier, I visited the common room to find the Miniknog playing ball games,
and the citizens locked in the cells. The self-styled leader of the Miniknog
prisoners, Hairbiter McVey, informed me that they'd requested some 'chill-out
time'.

  
  

> I will have to talk to the citizens, explain to them that to become prison
guards, they must be more assertive. Years of Miniknog oppression has left
them timid shells. While this was good for our original purposes, it now
leaves us with an army of Apex who are incapable of serving us.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 3   

> The citizens are beginning to assert themselves. The Miniknog prisoners had
overturned a vending machine and were stripping it of bananas and the like.
The citizens approached and very politely asked them to stop.

  

> The Miniknog ignored them, and the citizens sheepishly left, but still, it's
progress. I suggested to them that perhaps grovelling and begging is not the
best way to show authority, but they just looked confused.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 4   

> It has become clear to me that Big Ape has created an army of useless Apex.
Our Glorious Leader may be the most powerful being in the universe, but here
he has been somewhat short-sighted. Thankfully I am the one tasked with fixing
this.

  
  

> My first step must be to come up with a method of making the citizens more
proactive, while still remaining in the thrall of the Miniknog. As such, I
have scrapped the current experiment and converted the prison into a
gladiatorial arena. Perhaps this shall yield better results.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 5   

> The first fights went down today. The Apex citizens versus a bunch of
monsters we captured. This went pretty well. Only one casualty, and the Apex
were perfectly capable of fending for themselves. The Miniknog helped by
cheering them on and commanding them to fight.

  

> Turns out the Apex citizens are still formidable fighters when it comes down
to it. Monster parts everywhere. Even the Miniknog seemed impressed. Big Ape
watched via video link, of course, and expressed his concerns about the Apex
being too competent, but he hasn't seen the thrall in which the Miniknog still
hold them.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 6   

> Recently, I contacted my old friend Greenfinger. As usual, he came through
for me, and provided me with what I asked for. Ten angry, rabid Florans, out
for a fight. I questioned him as to whether they were prisoners, and he said
no, they were just bored.

  
  

> I attempted to brief the Florans on how the battle should go down, but I
don't think I got through to them. In fact, I narrowly avoided being impaled
by a rogue Floran spear. Greenfinger did warn me, I suppose. Tomorrow, they
shall fight my Apex.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 7   

> Well that's that experiment over for now. Nine Florans remain, and no Apex.
And I don't just mean the citizens either, the Miniknog guards fell afoul of
the Floran menace too. I tried to stop them, but Big Ape commanded me to let
it play out.

  
  

> I admit, it was interesting to watch. The Apex may possess great physical
strength, but the Floran outmatch them in all areas. Big Ape is plotting
something. He told me to wait before restarting the experiment. I, in the
meantime, have to herd nine angry Florans back into their quarters.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 8   

> Big Ape has tasked me with finding a way to ensure our Apex soldiers are
capable of taking down a Floran with ease. I thought about the long, hard,
gruelling training regimen this would involve. Even if we just focused on the
Miniknog soldiers, it would take forever.

  
  

> No, something better is required. We need a breed of Apex who is stronger,
better, faster than the rest. Front-line soldiers who are capable of leading
the charge, and dealing the brunt of the damage.

  
  

> I've put in another call to Greenfinger. I know that Floran DNA is very
malleable, and can be spliced rather easily. I need his permission to
experiment on the Florans he sent, and knowing Greenfinger, he'll happily
grant it.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 9   

> Unusually, Greenfinger had stipulations in regards to my experiments. I
could do what I wished, as long as he was in attendance. He arrived at my lab
moments after receiving my agreement, almost as if he'd been here the whole
time.

  
  

> Being in the presence of Greenfinger is, as usual, disconcerting. Every time
I turn around and see him, I am forced to ensure I don't recoil in alarm. Not
that Greenfinger is the sensitive sort.

  
  

> He is a brilliant, brilliant scientist however. I feel like a child fumbling
in the dark in comparison. Within half a day, he had perfected a theoretical
gene-splice between the Florans and the Apex, and constructed a plan for slow-
burning experimentation.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 10   

> Greenfinger entered the lab early this morning to find me working away
diligently. I was attempting to deconstruct the Floran DNA strands in the hope
I could find an even quicker solution to the DNA merge. Greenfinger lost his
temper.

  
  

> I have never seen my friend behave this way. At one stage, I almost feared
for my life. He smashed equipment, shouted and screamed. I began to suspect he
was scared. This, in turn, scared me.

  
  

> Finally I calmed my friend down. He apologised, and I asked him to explain.
And explain he did. His explanation shocked me to the very core. The secret he
has been hiding for all these years... it could change everything.

  

  * Incarcerus Notes 11   

> Greenfinger finally left, today. The experiment - following his plan, of
course - is set to go ahead. I think he was hesitant to make an exit, after
imparting certain knowledge upon me.

  
  

> He swore me to secrecy, of course. I am a respected scientist, and he knows
that I value my oaths above all else. And yet... this information I have come
to possess, the value it holds, is astronomical.

  
  

> I will keep quiet for Greenfinger, though. I shall say nothing. And he will
never know what it means to me to have been brought into his trust, to share
the burden of his secret, a burden he has carried alone for centuries. We will
get through this, old friend.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=5)]

### 2.2. 에이펙스 연구시설(Apex Facilities) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=6)]

#### 2.2.1. Blog of a Lab Assistant 1 ~ 10 ¶

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 1   

> Yesterday I was prodding and poking at tiny monster corpses, working out how
they tick. Today, I'm assistant to the most brilliant Apex mind in history
(aside from Big Ape, of course), working on a top secret, important project.

  

> It's funny how your life can change! I never thought my talent would be
noticed, and yet here I am. Doctor Lax is a stern, serious woman. She's very
focused on work. This suits me fine. Already, the lab workers who slack off
have been let go.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 2   

> The experiments we are doing make me somewhat uncomfortable. Remember Randy,
the guy I often complained about who never took the work seriously? Well,
apparently he 'volunteered' as a test subject today.

  

> I've never seen a volunteer seem so resistant. We strapped him down, and
began pumping him full of some kind of chemical or other. Thankfully, whatever
it was seemed to have no effect on him, as he was back in the mess hall joking
around that night.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 3   

> Last night, a calamity occurred. An intruder broke into our lab and trashed
the place. Doctor Lax was incredibly edgy about it all. She spent hours
looking to see if anything had been taken. It did not seem to have been.

  

> Randy was missing, though. Didn't show up for the second phase of his
trials, not that they could go ahead. Doctor Lax put in a number of calls, and
soon we were being transported off-world, to a secret location. It all
happened so fast.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 4   

> Turns out, the plan is to keep our lab mobile, never staying in one place
for too long. I asked Doctor Lax how this benefits the experiment, but she
screamed angrily at me and told me to mind my own business.

  

> I am beginning to suspect that this change has nothing to do with our
experiment, and everything to do with Doctor Lax. Just what is it she's
running from? Am I in danger myself? Find out in the next exciting instalment
of my blog!

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 5   

> Test subjects are coming in thick and fast now. They're divided into three
groups, and then their treatment begins. There's the control group, obviously,
then a group who are treated with Formula H and Formula F. I'm working on the
Formula F test group.

  

> I'd love to share details on the experiment here, but even I can't risk
that. It's very exciting though. However, it makes me uncomfortable realising
that our test subjects aren't volunteers. Some are impoverished Apex citizens,
but some are Resistance soldiers, captured. Of course, I should have no
sympathy for them, but...

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 6   

> We came into the lab today to find all of the Formula H test subjects dead.
Their bodies had just shut down. Doctor Lax treated it as if it was expected.
Maybe it was. She's acting strange lately. I don't like it.

  

> Lax has her own experimental chamber, and there's definitely something in
there. I hear noises. I'm often the last one in the lab, and I won't lie, it
creeps me out. I hear growling, and banging on the doors, and sometimes even
low sobbing.

  

> One day, I'm going to be brave enough to take a look. Just a quick peek.
I've seen the access code Lax enters. I could get in. I just... I'm nervous.
The test chamber is marked with so many 'danger' signs that I feel hesitant.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 7   

> We are to be visited by Big Ape himself. This is unprecedented. The
atmosphere in the lab is one of excitement and terror. None of us have ever
seen Big Ape in the flesh before! I have to admit, I get a fanboy shiver every
time I think about it.

  

> In other news, Doctor Lax has become more withdrawn, working away in her
experiment chamber at all hours of the day and night. I've had no opportunity
to take a look. I'm almost relieved.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 8   

> The Formula F test subjects are producing great results. At least, that's
what I'm told. I like to think I have a great understanding of my work, but
even then, I can't fathom exactly what's going on here. It doesn't help that
half the results are redacted.

  

> I feel like my role here is to press buttons and flip switches, and nothing
more. Doctor Lax, when she bothers to emerge from her test chamber at all,
simply snatches the results from my hand and stalks off. It's all very
disconcerting.

  

> Lax has been especially jumpy lately, too. She's surrounding herself with
Miniknog guards, even having them search us each day as we enter the lab. It's
no longer an enjoyable working environment. Still, at least we have Big Ape's
visit to look forward to.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 9   

> I'm writing this from beneath a desk. I'm hiding. If I don't make it out of
here, spread my story. Make sure the universe knows what happened. I can hear
gunfire, and screams, and a terrible, pained roaring sound.

  

> Big Ape arrived. Just knocked on the door and announced he was here. Of
course, I threw it open excitedly. Doctor Lax, stepping out of her chamber,
screamed for me to stop, but it was too late. A figure stood there, wearing an
ill-fitting ape costume.

  

> Tearing off the costume, the creature tossed me aside. I've never seen a
beast like it. It was sentient; it spoke to Doctor Lax, told her that her time
was up, that the Ring of Thorns had found her. It began to chase her through
the compound, as I cowered beneath my desk.

  

  * Blog of a Lab Assistant 10   

> The sounds of fighting had died down. I saw the creature, the assassin,
stalking out of the building, seemingly content with its work. I waited, then
cautiously made my way out, towards the test chamber, the door ajar.

  

> I peered inside, unsure of what I'd find. There, Doctor Lax lay slumped
inside a large capsule, a syringe stuck in her neck, pumping what appeared to
be a combination of Formula F and H into her veins. She was dead, of course.

  

> Whatever had been inside the test chamber originally was long gone. But
Doctor Lax's notes remained. This... this changes everything. What we've been
doing, what we've been working towards, it's an abomination. How could Big Ape
condone this?

  

> My next blog post will blow this whole thing wide open. I'm going into
hiding. I need to make sure I'm safe, and then I'm blowing the whistle on all
of this. The Miniknog - Big Ape himself - must be stopped.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=7)]

#### 2.2.2. A Ludicrous Annoyance ¶

  

> How am I meant to further the Apex species when our labs get attacked? And
by a member of the Ring of Thorns, no less. That Thornwing will get an earful
next time we have cocktails.

  

> I sent my elite Miniknog guards to clean up the mess. Doctor Lax's body was
gone. What kind of lunatic kidnaps a body! Oh well. Probably eaten by Florans.
Managed to recover some of the notes and that, so I've hired another doctor to
carry on with the research.

  

> On the plus side, my Miniknog spies were able to track down that annoying
blogger who kept posting NDA-protected information. He's hiding out in a human
prison, of all places. Might place a call to Thornwing to deal with him, I
guess.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=8)]

#### 2.2.3. A Scribbled Note ¶

  

> Memories black. Feel... pain. Changes. I was... I was... I feel the
formulas. Remember who did this.

  

아무것도 기억나지않아. 고통...스러워... 변했어. 내가... 내가... 약기운이 느껴져... 기억해내야돼... 누가 나에게 이런짓을
했는지...  

> Remember. Florans. Thorns. Big Ape. All crush. All crush.

  

기억났다.. 플로란, Thornswing, 빅 에이프. 부숴버릴거야.. 모두 부숴버릴거야...

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=9)]

#### 2.2.4. Greenfinger's Notes: Loose Ends ¶

  

> Unhappy to have left the Apex compound. Sharing our species' secret is not
something I take lightly. My acquaintance, the Apex scientist Doctor Lax, can
be trusted. I have utter faith in her.

  

> And yet, this is not something I can leave up to faith. I was barely off-
planet before putting the call in to Thornwing. The Ring of Thorns have been
dispatched. No loose ends. It is how we've survived thus far, and how we will
continue to survive.

  

> I am sorry, Doctor.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=10)]

### 2.3. 에이펙스 아파트(Apex Apartments) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=11)]

#### 2.3.1. An Apex Advert ¶

  

> Try Big Ape's patented Miniknog Bananas! 100% Mind Control-free, guaranteed!
Absolutely no risk of death, or your money back! Eat one today! Not to be
consumed while operating vehicles.

  

Big Ape 특허 미니크녹 바나나를 먹어보세요! 정신지배로부터 100% 자유롭게 해 줄것을 보장합니다! 먹고 죽을 일은 **절대**
없습니다! 만약 죽더라도 환불해 드립니다! -<del>뭐?</del>\- 지금 당장 먹어보세요! 단, 운전중에 먹으면 안됩니다.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=12)]

#### 2.3.2. Big Ape ¶

  

> by Greenfinger of the Floran  
I will admit, the ape is not to my tastes. He is brash, boorish and a poor
tactician. His insistence in appearing behind a video screen is tiresome - he
forgets I know all his little secrets.

  

인정하지. 난 그녀석`[1]` 이 별로야. 그는 성급하고, 버릇없으며 비열한 전략가야. 그가 화면 뒤에서 복종을 강요하는것은 정말이지
짜증이나. 내가 그의 작은 비밀들까지 다 알고있는걸 잊었나봐?  

> And yet, he's an invaluable ally. I may not agree with his methods, but his
goals are sound. And he has the ear of the self-styled lord, Thornwing.
Strange times make for strange bedfellows. It's not like anything is
conventional these days.

  

그럼에도, 그는 또한 중요한 동맹자이기도 해. 그의 통치방식은 마음에 안 들지만, 그가 이루어낸 업적이 많은건 확실하거든. 자칭 군주
Thornwing도 그의 편이야. 시대가 바뀌었어. 모든것이 관습적인 것만은 아니야.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=13)]

#### 2.3.3. The Steel Casebook: Apex ¶

  

> by Hewlett Deckard, Glitch bounty hunter  
Arriving at an Apex settlement always fills me with sadness. The Apex plight
is not unlike the Glitch's, but a thousand times worse. Here, Big Ape and his
awful Miniknog have broken the population, reducing them to mindless slaves.

  

글리치 현상금사냥꾼,Hewlett Deckard 씀  
에이펙스의 거류지에 올때마다 안타깝다는 생각이 들어. 에이펙스의 처지는 글리치만큼, 아니, 글리치보다 천배는 더 나쁠거야. Big Ape와
끔직한 미니크녹 군사들이 인구수를 줄이고 에이펙스들을 생각하지못하는 노예로 만들어버렸어.  

> Put a foot wrong, and the Miniknog are on you. Do nothing wrong, and chances
are they will be anyway. I hear talk of mysterious labs on remote planets, of
horrific experiments and terrifying beasts.

  

말 한번 잘못하면 미니크녹 병사가 어김없이 널 찾아가지. 잘못한게 없어도, 언제든지 병사들이 널 찾아올 여지가 있어. 난 어느 외진 행성의
비밀연구소에 대한, 소름끼치는 연구와 무시무시한 괴물들에 대한 이야기를 들어 본적도 있어.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=14)]

#### 2.3.4. A Folk Tale ¶

  

> When Big Ape was just a little ape, his home village was attacked by
creeping horrors from beyond the stars. These vile penguins set everything to
the torch, and Big Ape was forced to watch as his village burned.

  

Big Ape가 어렸을 때, 그의 고향은 습격을 받았다. 사악한 팽귄무리가 사방에 불을 질렀고, Big Ape는 그의 고향이 불타는걸
지켜보고 있을 수 밖에 없었다.  

> Big Ape swore revenge, and revenge he got. As the penguins were leaving in
their space pirate ship, he fired a grappling hook at them and pulled the ship
down to earth, using nothing but his strength. After that, penguins never
burned his village down again.

  

그는 복수를 맹세했다. 그리고 그는 복수하는데 성공했다. 팽귄무리가 우주해적선을 떠날 때를 노려, 그는 갈고랑쇠를 쏘아 오직 그의 힘만으로
배를 당겨 땅으로 떨어뜨렸다. 그후 팽귄무리는 다시는 그의 마을을 불태울 수 없었다.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=15)]

#### 2.3.5. Friends to the End ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl adventurer  
So I hit upon a genius idea! If the Resistance and the Miniknog could just
talk it out, then maybe things could get smoothed over. I'm sure Big Ape is
not the villain they think, if only they'd get to know him. So I tunnelled out
of my room and found the nearest Miniknog platoon.

  

하이로틀 모험가,Hiraki Corale 씀  
그래서 나는 기막힌 생각 하나를 떠올렸지. 만약 저항군과 미니크녹 군사들이 대화를 할 수 있다면 둘의 관계가 나아질 것 같았어. Big
Ape는 그들이 생각하는 것처럼 나쁘지 않다고 난 확신할 수 있었어. 저항군이 Big Ape와 만날수 있다면 좋을텐대. 그래서 나는 방에서
나와 근처의 미니크녹 소대를 찾아갔지.  

> Filled with positivity, I led them to the Resistance hideout and told them
that if they didn't sort out their differences, I'd knock their heads
together. So smart! Well, I think it went okay! I didn't stick around to find
out for sure, of course, I had to meet back up with Greenfinger, but I saw
them all marching together through the town square as we left.

  

기쁜 마음으로, 난 병사들을 저항군의 아지트로 대려가서 만약 그들이 둘 사이의 불화를 해결하지 못한다면 혼쭐을 내주겠다했어. 똑똑하지! 음,
난 분명히 잘 해결될거라 생각했어. 물론 난 거기 계속 있지는 않았지. Greenfinger를 다시 만나야 했거든. 근대 나랑
Greenfinger가 떠날 때, 저항군들이 마을 광장으로 행진 하는걸 봤거든. 뭘까?

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=16)]

#### 2.3.6. An Apex Headline ¶

  

> Core Resistance cell captured - Big Ape triumphs again

  

저항군 주요기지 점령됨 - Big Ape, 또다시 승리하다.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=17)]

#### 2.3.7. Minutes of a Meeting ¶

  

> Participants: Big Ape, Greenfinger, Thornwing, `[Redacted]`  
****  
Big Ape: So, let's get started then. We have important things to discuss.  
****  
Greenfinger: `[Redacted]`  
****  
Thornwing: `[Redacted]`  
****  
`[Redacted]` : Are you serious?  
****  
Big Ape: `[Redacted]`  
****  
Big Ape: `[Redacted]`  
****  
Big Ape: `[Redacted]`  
****  
Big Ape: And that's why you should never date a Hylotl.  
****  
Thornwing: Kluex save us.  
****  
Greenfinger: `[Redacted]`

  

참석자 : Big Ape, Greenfinger, Thornwing, `[편집됨]`  
  
Big Ape : 그럼, 시작합시다. 의논해야할 것들이 많소.  
  
Greenfinger : `[편집됨]`  
  
Thornwing : `[편집됨]`  
  
`[편집됨]` : 진심입니까?  
  
Big Ape : `[편집됨]`  
  
Big Ape : `[편집됨]`  
  
Big Ape : `[편집됨]`  
  
Big Ape : 그러므로 당신들은 절대 하이로틀과 약속을 해서는 안됩니다.  
  
Thornwing : Kluex께서 우리를 구원하실 겁니다.  
  
Greenfinger : `[편집됨]`  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=18)]

#### 2.3.8. A Pleasant Town ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl adventurer  
I find myself in a Miniknog-controlled Apex town. But oh, control is such an
ugly word, isn't it? The Apex here are all so polite, and friendly. They bow
and grovel as I pass, my Miniknog entourage only occasionally having to knock
them back!

  
  

> It's all very exciting. An audience with Big Ape! Greenfinger told me he's
heard about my exploits, and would like to pick my brain. I mean gosh, I've
heard rumours about Big Ape picking peoples' brains, but I don't think it
means that this time.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=19)]

#### 2.3.9. An Apex Poster ¶

  

> `[On the poster, Big Ape - here depicted as a buff gorilla - is doing the
thumbs-up sign. Below the picture, the text reads 'Bigger IS Better - Big Ape
is watching.']`

  

`[포스터에는, 몸짱 고릴라로 묘사된 Big Ape가 엄지를 치켜올린 그림이 그려져있다. 포스터 하단에는 '클수록 좋다 - Big Ape가
보고있습니다.' 라는 글귀가 적혀있다.]`

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=20)]

#### 2.3.10. Miniknog Problems: A Report ¶

  

> Not only do we have to deal with sightings of a hulking figure on the
streets at night, but now the Resistance has set up shop in our little town,
as well. Why can't they just let us do our jobs? All Big Ape wants is total
and absolute control, is that so much to ask?

  
  

> We have a platoon of armed guards just waiting to descend on their hideout
should we find it. Free-thinking, free-spirited Apex are not welcome here. If
we don't find them soon, we'll have to poison the water supply again, and then
EVERYONE suffers.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=21)]

#### 2.3.11. La Resistance ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl adventurer  
Turns out the Apex resistance fellows are rather nice! They've given me a room
of my own, and even locked the door in case the Miniknog storm in and endanger
me. So thoughtful!

  
  

> Earlier, I pulled out my rocket launcher to show them the type of weaponry
the should be considering, and it caused such a ruckus! I've never seen Apex
get so excited. One of them was so eager he tried to grab it from me, and we
had a little accident involving an RPG and the front of the HQ.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=22)]

#### 2.3.12. Child's Rhyme ¶

  

> There once was an ape called Big Ape  
Whose brain was the size of a grape  
He swung through the trees  
And got riddled with fleas  
And GLORY TO BIG APE OUR GLORIOUS LEADER. HAIL THE MINIKNOG. DO NOT RESIST.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=23)]

#### 2.3.13. The Silly Miniknog ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl adventurer  
These Miniknog sure do treat the other Apex badly! So sad! They're always
barking out orders or firing rounds into the sky. It's very tedious and
stressful. Really, you can't blame me for ditching my escort, can you?

  
  

> I happened to find myself in what I think must be a Resistance Headquarters.
So rebellious! I recognised some of the faces from wanted posters. The Apex
stared at me as if I was some sort of intruder or something. One of them was
shivering and looked sick, so I loaned her my Big Ape-branded jacket. So kind!

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=24)]

## 3. Avian 항목 ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=25)]

### 3.1. 아비안 마을(Avian Vilages) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=26)]

#### 3.1.1. The Kluex Delusion ¶

  

  * The Kluex`[2]` Delusion 1   

> p.1 by Rochard Hawkwings  
While the Flightless blindly follow the teachings of the Clipped Council`[3]`,
those of us who are enlightened - grounded, if you will - question it. Many of
us, in fact, are of the opinion that Kluex does not even exist.

  

Rochard Hawkwings 지음  
Flightless들이 맹목적으로 Clipped Council(이하 CC)의 가르침을 따르는 동안, 우리같이 계몽된 아비안들 – 그렇다면
너는 아마도 Grounded의 일원일 것 이다 - 은 의문을 품었다. 사실 우리 중 대다수가 Kluex는 실제로 존재하지 않는다고 주장한다.  

> p.2 What evidence is there? What SCIENTIFIC evidence? Proof. That's what the
universe revolves around. There is little proof that Kluex exists, other than
people who claim to have seen him. There's also his space station, of course,
floating just outside of orbit.

  

무슨 근거가 있냐고? **과학적인** 증거라도 있냐고? 증명해주지. 그것이 인지상정이다. Kluex를 보았다고 주장하는 자들을 제외하고는,
그가 존재한다는 근거는 거의 없다. Kluex의 우주정거장도 있다. 물론, 궤도 밖에 떠있기만 한다.  

> p.3 A lonely, desolate place. Fit for a god? I do not believe so. If you ask
me, that space station is a spy satellite. Watching us. Recording our personal
data. Sending reports to the Council about what we do, think, eat, drink.
They're watching us all.

  

외롭고 쓸쓸한 곳 일거다. 신에게 어울린다고? 난 그렇게 믿지 않는다. 이유를 묻는다면 그 정거장은 정찰위성(도청위성)이기 때문이다. 우리를
감시한다. 우리의 개인정보를 기록한다. 우리가 무얼 하고, 생각하고, 먹고, 마시는지를 CC에 보고한다. 그들은 우리의 모든 것을 감시하고
있다.  

  * The Kluex Delusion 2  

> p.1 by Rochard Hawkwings  
Prayer. Something the Clipped Council extol the virtues of. But how, I ask,
can Kluex hear our prayers? Even according to the mythology, he is a simple
Avian who ascended to Godhood through the power of flight. Flight! Not super-
hearing.

  

Rochard Hawkwings 지음

CC가 Kluex의 덕망을 찬양하는 기도문도 있다. 하지만, Kluex가 어떻게 우리의 기도를 듣겠는가? 심지어 신화에 따르면, 그는 그저
날 수 있다는 것만으로 신격화된 한 아비안에 불과하다. Kluex는 기도문을 들을 능력 따윈 없다.  

> p.2 But you know what DOES have super-hearing? A SPY SATELLITE. That's
right. Every time you pray, that spy satellite records your words, documents
them, and saves them for use against you. Maybe the Council has been taking
tips from the Apex. That makes a lot of sense. I will get to the bottom of
this.

  

그러면 **무었이** 우리의 기도를 듣는 줄 아는가? 바로 **도청위성** 이다. 네가 매번 기도를 올릴 때 마다 그 정찰위성이 너의 말을
녹음하고 문서에 기록하고 네게 이용하기 위해 그것을 저장한다. 아마 CC는 에이펙스들에게서 조언을 들었을 것 이다. 아주 말이 된다. 내가
이것의 진상을 규명할 것 이다.  

  * The Kluex Delusion 3  

> p.1 by Rochard Hawkwings  
I have discovered some startling similarities between Kluex and Big Ape, the
ruler of the Apex. They are both mysterious figures, and they both rule.
Having researched Avian history, I came to the conclusion that it's entirely
possible the Clipped Council met with Big Ape in the past.

  

Rochard Hawkwings 지음  
Kluex와 에이펙스의 통치자인 Big Ape 사이의 놀라운 공통점을 찾았다. 그들은 둘 다 불가사의한 존재이며 지배한다. 아비안의 역사를
연구해본 결과, 나는 CC가 과거에 Big Ape를 분명히 만났을 것 이라고 결론지었다.  

> p.2 Perhaps this is where the idea for Kluex came from. Perhaps Kluex's
space station is simply filled with Miniknog technology, reading our every
thought. I will reach out to Big Ape himself, for comment.

  

아마도 이것이 Kluex에대한 착안의 기원일 것 이다. 아마도 Kluex의 정거장에는 그저 우리의 모든 생각을 읽어내는 Miniknog기술로
가득 차 있을 것 이다. 난 Big Ape와 접촉하여 그를 다그칠 것 이다.  

  * The Kluex Delusion 4  

> p.1 by Rochard Hawkwings  
I received a reply from Apex leader Big Ape, which I shall reprint in the
pages of this book:

  

Rochard Hawkwings 지음  
Big Ape로부터 답장을 받았다. 그 내용은 이 책의 다음 페이지에 서술해 놓겠다.  

> p.2 'Sup, Big Ape, here. Kluex, you say? A god? An Avian god? Big Ape is not
familiar with this individual. But Big Ape will be happy to challenge your god
Kluex to a no-holds-barred cage match, to prove ape superiority once and for
all. Any time, any place, anything goes. The Miniknog are always ready.  
Love,  
Glorious Leader Big Ape'

  

'안녕하신가. Big Ape라네. Kluex라고 했나? 신 이라고? 아비안의 신? 짐은 그와 친하지 않네. 하지만 짐은 너의 신 Kluex와
치열한 전쟁을 벌인다면 기쁠 것 같네. 에이펙스의 우월함을 그를 포함한 모두에게 증명할 수 있을 것이니 말일세. Miniknog는 언제든지
준비되어 있다네.  

안부 전해주게.  
  
이름 높은 통치자, Big Ape가'  

> p.3 It remains to be seen whether Kluex will accept this offer.

  

이제 Kluex가 이 도전을 받아들일 건지 보는 일만 남았다  

  * The Kluex Delusion 5  

> p.1 by Rochard Hawkwings  
I was visited by the Stargazers themselves. They have heard of me, of my work.
And so, too, has Kluex. I was summoned.

  

Rochard Hawkwings 지음  
Stargazer들이 나를 찾아왔다. 그들은 나에 대해, 내가 저지른 일에 대해 알고있었다. 그리고 마찬가지로 Kluex도. 나는
호출되었다.  
  

> p.2 Let me just say I was wrong. I have been wrong this whole time. I am a
fool and a rogue. Glory to Kluex. I have gazed upon our Sunborn lord with my
own eyes, and I know now the truth. Grounded, it is not too late! Repent, come
back to the flock. Kluex will forgive you. Do not doubt his power.

  

내가 틀렸다. 이제껏 잘못 알고 있었다. 난 그저 멍청한 사기꾼 이었다. Kluex에게 영광을! 난 내눈으로 직접 그분을 올려보았고,
이제서야 진실을 알았다. Grounded여, 아직 늦지 않았다! 참회하라! 무리로 다시 들어오라. Kluex께서 모두 용서하실 것 이다.
그분의 힘을 의심하지마라.  

> p.3 Now, I need to deal with that whole Big Ape thing I may have kicked off.
My Apex contacts report that he's been training exceptionally hard for some
kind of boxing match...

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=27)]

### 3.2. 아비안 비행정(Avian Airships) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=28)]

#### 3.2.1. An Avian Air Shanty ¶

  

> Florans live in trees  
Hylotl swim the seas  
But we are the Avians  
And the air is where we'll be!

  

> Our wings they work no more  
But in our ships we soar  
And if the Council come aboard  
We'll toss them to the floor!

  

> We'll sail across the skies  
Shoot down our elders' lies  
Cos when you face the Grounded  
We will take you by surprise!

  

> Our ships don't make a sound  
Our feet don't touch the ground  
We'll fly our boats right into space  
We're going to be starbound!

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=29)]

#### 3.2.2. Journal of a Mechanic 1 ~ 6 ¶

  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 1   

> Working on an airship is one step closer to my dream. I wanna be part of a
starship crew - of course, who doesn't - but these airships are the next best
thing. Keeping everything top notch, in working order, this is my calling.
It's hard work, but no harder than living in the thrall of Kluex. Here, I'm
liberated.

  
  

> I often think back to my days training as an Ascendant. At night I dream of
the Celestial Tower, of those steps leading up to the heavens, and the descent
that would have awaited me at the top. All told,I prefer a deck beneath my
feet.

  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 2   

> I've been fooling around with the Power Crystals that keep this ship afloat,
and I've come to the conclusion that I need to get my hands on some for a
personal project. I miss tinkering in my workshop, creating all manner of fun
contraptions.

  

> Getting a hold of power crystals won't be easy, though. They are - quite
understandably - regulated. It wouldn't do for just anyone to have access to
them, after all! But I'm a certified PC Engineer, I should be able to pull a
few strings.

  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 3   

> Unable to acquire power crystals through official channels, I was able to
procure some from another airship who docked with us to trade. They had an
unusually large number of spare crystals in their hold, and the villagers were
being somewhat cagey when I asked about this.

  
  

> After some digging, I discovered the crystals were being traded to a certain
Floran leader, in exchange for a batch of one of his experimental concoctions.
I struck a deal with the captain; my silence, for a few of her crystals. A
reasonable trade.

  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 4   

> I've been tinkering in my workshop deep in the bowels of the ship, and
created something rather remarkable. For a while now, I've been fascinated by
the Glitch; those robot men who crop up every now and then. I decided to make
my own.

  
  

> My little robot is powered by a crystal, and can perform menial tasks on
command. It doesn't appear to have sentience, thankfully, but it makes up for
that in enthusiasm and a willingness to serve. If my experiments pan out, I
could have created the ideal worker.

  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 5   

> I had to destroy my robot today. Some meddling Hylotl found her way to my
workshop, and for some reason this turned my companion hostile. It proceeded
to patrol around the ship, menacing Avians, until I was able to shut it down a
few hours later. After retrieving the power crystal, I threw my robot
overboard.

  

> I plan to make a larger, more powerful robot, but it's going to require more
power crystals. Perhaps with the right amount, I can give it enough
intelligence to stop it attacking people on sight. Luckily the smuggler ship
will be docking with us again later this evening, and I can make another
request.

  
  

  * Journal of a Mechanic 6   

> My attempts at blackmail have backfired. I'm here, trapped on the smuggler's
ship, in the cargo hold. Kluex knows where they're taking me. Maybe they'll
hand me over to this Floran I keep hearing about. There are rumblings of live
experiments.

  
  

> I have no choice but to escape. I'll have to get creative. All I have is a
bunch of smuggled power crystals, my soldering iron, and my robot, which for
some reason the smugglers seem to have retrieved and attempted to fix.
Naturally, they've broken it even more.

  
  

> I think I can salvage it, though. Perhaps in a different manner. I have an
idea. I need a means of escaping myself, not simply a way of taking down the
smugglers. Inspiration is building up inside me.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=30)]

#### 3.2.3. Fight or Flight ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl Adventurer  
I was exploring the ship, as you do, when I encountered what appeared to be
someone's private laboratory, marked with 'Keep Out' signs and warnings of
delicate, breakable equipment within. I barged my way inside, and began to
fiddle with all the exciting bits and bobs.

  
  

> Imagine my alarm when, from out of nowhere, I was greeted by a dull robotic
voice commanding me to 'prepare to die'. At first, I thought the Glitch had
finally sent assassins to demand retribution for past transgressions, but the
truth was much worse.

  
  

> A small, misshapen robot stood before me, vibrating on the spot. It looked
like it had been made out of a kettle and some saucepans, but its eyes glowed
red with malevolence. I knew this was it. Me or the robot. Live or die.

  
  

> Screaming, I ran from the room, knocking machinery hither and thither.
Avians stared at me as I ran through the ship, being pursued by the robot.
Nobody even stepped in to help! Eventually I had to throw myself over the
side, plummeting down to meet the ground below. Thankfully, the ship was
passing over an outdoor Apex marriage ceremony, and the wedding cake broke my
fall. A narrow escape!

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=31)]

#### 3.2.4. Journal of a Hero ¶

  

> I did it. I can fly. Fly like an Avian, like a Sunborn. I once again have
wings. Well, jet-boots, but nonetheless, it is flight. I crafted this armour
to escape from my captors, but now I shall adopt it always. I will fight for
truth, justice and freedom.

  
  

> Right now, I'm looking for a sidekick and a plan. And a cause, maybe. I hear
those Apex could use a little help. Or maybe the humans. I will crusade for
justice throughout the galaxy, and it will be glorious.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=32)]

#### 3.2.5. The Iron Avian ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl Adventurer  
I boarded another airship village today, when it had stopped to dock. Climbed
my way up the anchor and squirreled myself into a cabin before anyone could
complain. Everything was going well; the captain, a jolly fellow called
Wrenolds, allowed me to teach him how to play Lilyflip. We were half way
through a game when it happened. I was winning.

  
  

> The door to the cargo hold splintered open, and a large, metallic Avian came
striding out. Swiftly he dispatched a number of the ship's crew, punching and
smashing his way around. I cowered in fear, hiding behind the captain, who let
off some shots from his rifle.

  
  

> The bullets simply bounced off the iron Avian, who laughed, smashed the
ship's mast, then leaped into the air. A glowing circle on his chest began to
pulsate, then thrusters in the man's feet kicked in, and the Avian took off,
soaring into the skies like a rocket ship. What a sight!

  
  

> I was unaware the Avians had developed armour that allowed them to fly
again. I commented on this to Wrenolds, and he told me it was unheard of. He
muttered something about power crystals, and then I heard him mention my dear
friend Greenfinger, who they were apparently going to see. What luck! I
informed him he could drop me off there.

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=33)]

#### 3.2.6. Mallard Reynolds' Diary ¶

  

> This Greenfinger is becoming demanding. What does he want with all these
power crystals, anyway? I don't trust a client who won't meet me in person.
Always sends his creepy plant people to get the deliveries. Still, that Drysap
gets a high price on the black market, so can't complain.

  
  

> That mechanic from last month wound me up no end, though. I don't respond
well to blackmail. I mention this as we're docking with the ship he works on
again tonight. I hope he has the good sense to leave things be. If not, we're
prepared this time...

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=34)]

#### 3.2.7. Avian Power Crystals ¶

  

> by K'arn Hollowbeak, Avian scholar  
아비안 학자,K'arn Hollowbeak 지음  
****  
One of our species' most proud achievements, the Power Crystals we harness can
be used in all manner of ways, from machinery to lighting to cooking. These
crystals are in high demand across the universe, of course, but the Avians
keep them close to their chest.  
우리 종족의 자랑스런 업적중 하나인 파워 크리스탈은 조명이나 요리부터 기계장치까지 모든 방면에서 쓰일 수 있다.  
****  
It is a worry, albeit an unavoidable one, that the Grounded have such ready
access to the crystals. What worries me even more is that, despite using these
miraculous minerals, they still deny the power of Kluex. Who else could create
such wonders, if not a god?  
한 가지 피할 수 없는 근심거리가 있다. Grounded는 이미 크리스탈을 사용하고 있다. 근심거리는, 그들이 이 기적같은 광물을
사용하면서도 여전히 클루엑스의 힘을 부인한다는 것이다. 신이 아니라면 누가 이런 놀라운걸 만들 수 있겠는가?

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=35)]

#### 3.2.8. Seasick ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl adventurer  
하이로틀 모험가,Hiraki Corale 지음  
****  
I know, I know, a Hylotl shouldn't get seasick. But I'm in the air, not on the
sea! So really, it isn't seasickness is it? Nevertheless, I've spent my days
on this ship feeling exceptionally queasy, occasionally even... well, it is
not polite to speak of it.  
알아. 나도 알아. 하이로틀은 뱃멀미를 하지않지. 하지만 여긴 바다가 아니고 하늘이잖아! 그러니까, 지금 이건 뱃멀미가 아니다, 그렇지?
아무튼, 이 배에서 지내는 동안 엄청 메슥거렸어. 심지어 가끔은... 아니다, 이 말은 안하는게 좋겠다.

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=36)]

### 3.3. 아비안 탑(Avian Towers) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=37)]

### 3.4. 아비안 신전(Avian Temples) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=38)]

### 3.5. 아비안 무덤(Avian Tomb) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=39)]

## 4. Floran 항목 ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=40)]

### 4.1. 플로란 마을(Floran Vilages) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=41)]

### 4.2. 플로란 토굴(Floran Dungeon) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=42)]

## 5. Glitch 항목 ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=43)]

### 5.1. 글리치 성(Glitch Castle) ¶

  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=44)]

#### 5.1.1. The Would-Be King 1 ~ 6 ¶

  

  * The Would-Be King 1   

> Once upon a time, before the dawn of the Outcasts, all the Glitch lived
peacefully together. They had their villages and castles and fields and all
sorts of other things that robots like. They lived happily and prosperously,
thousands of minds working together. But one day, a single Glitch walked into
the castle, took a seat on the throne, and loudly proclaimed; 'Decisive. I am
the king.'

  
  

> The other Glitch stared at this unusual sight for a while, but did not know
what to say. A self-proclaimed ruler was not something they were prepared for.
As such, and with no real understanding of the situation , the Glitch were
forced to obey.

  
  

  * The Would-Be King 2   

> The new Glitch king called himself Dreadwing, and ruled with an iron fist.
His subjects were expected to work day and night, which at first was not a
problem for the Glitch since they rarely feel the need to rest. Soon, however,
it became clear that the wear and tear on Glitch parts was an issue, and
Dreadwing demanded the construction of more Glitch to boost his ranks.

  
  

> The Glitch were puzzled here, because at no point in their species history
had they ever been able to create more of their number. For as long as they
could, they put off this task, until one day Dreadwing descended into a fit of
such ferocious anger that the Glitch knew they had to do something.

  
  

  * The Would-Be King 3   

> Day by day, Dreadwing grew more apoplectic as the number of Glitch never
grew. In fact, his anger was such that he took to hurling his subjects from
the castle tower, thus causing the population to shrink rather than grow. This
made him even more angry.

  
  

> One day, a group of Glitch scientists hit upon an idea. They had no idea how
to create more of their number, of course, but they were rather adept at
making stylish suits of armour. It had often been remarked upon how the armour
looked like the Glitch themselves, and so they set to work commissioning a
number of blacksmiths to make as many suits of armour as possible.

  
  

  * The Would-Be King 4   

> The Glitch blacksmiths toiled day and night to create an army suitable for
their lord Dreadwing. Of course, this army didn't fight, or even move, but
they looked really great at certain angles. Eventually, though, the
blacksmiths ran out of room for their false army, and realised it was time to
unveil it.

  
  

> This posed a problem in itself. Of course, the army was not capable of
marching on the castle, or marching anywhere. A plan was needed. A plan that
even Dreadwing would not question. And finally that plan came together; the
Glitch would host a parade.

  
  

  * The Would-Be King 5   

> The army paraded past on floats, towed by a number of Glitch workers and a
Floran who'd decided to join in unannounced. Dreadwing sat atop his iron
throne, brought outside into the city, and applauded each and every unit.
'They stand very still,' he remarked, to which his aides replied 'yes, they
are very disciplined.'

  
  

> As the last float made its way down the street, the entire crowd gasped as
one of the soldiers leaped from the stand, and charged towards Dreadwing. Most
surprised of all were the blacksmiths, who knew full well that their
'soldiers' were little more than decorative suits of armour. Dreadwing,
however, thought it was all part of the show.

  
  

  * The Would-Be King 6   

> King Dreadwing applauded and whooped as the armoured Glitch careened towards
him. It was only as the soldier lowered its blade and charged that he
suspected something was wrong. The blade pierced his metal shell, which
shattered with a deafening crack.

  
  

> All the Glitch watched as their king fell backwards, his Glitch disguise
falling away, revealing a small, black and white bird-like creature. The
Glitch had been duped! All this time, their tyrannical, unusual king had been
a space pirate in disguise. It made perfect sense. Realising the game was up,
and badly injured, the evil space pirate made his escape, never to be seen
again.

  
  

> The rogue soldier turned out to be the impromptu Floran, who had grown bored
and decided to go on a hunting spree. She was made an honorary hero of the
Glitch people, but then immediately exiled because killing kings is bad, even
if they were penguins in disguise. From that day forth, the Glitch vowed never
to allow another monarch to take control, even if they asked really nicely.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=45)]

#### 5.1.2. The Curious Glitch ¶

  

> by Greenfinger of the Florans  
Ever since our two species came together, the Glitch have been a source of
intrigue for me. The Hivemind Glitch remind me of our people in many ways;
singularly driven, focus on teamwork. And yet the Florans work as a unit
through choice, but the Glitch appear connected to some kind of central
mainframe. A sentient AI, perhaps? Or something else. The truth has been lost
to history. Nonetheless, it is remarkable to consider that in this way, the
Florans far outmatch the Glitch in terms of societal advancement.

  
  

> It is the Outcasts who interest me most. Many of these free-thinking Glitch
have come into our midst. Their physiology means they have little to fear from
the Florans, but there is more than that. There is an affinity between the two
species, of which there is no denying.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=46)]

#### 5.1.3. A Well-Folded Note ¶

  

> Never have I felt so alone. I am surrounded by my Glitch kin, and yet I know
deep down I am an outcast. At night, I sleep, and I dream. Dream! Glitch do
not dream. I dream of escape, of journeying beyond the stars, of carving a
life out for myself, away from this drudgery.

  
  

> My thought process is changing. It terrifies me. I have desires, now. I
question things. I almost caught myself second-guessing a directive out loud.
I can feel my connection to the central consciousness fading, and while this
scares me, there is a feeling of comfort there too.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=47)]

#### 5.1.4. Guest in the Castle ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl Adventurer  
The Glitch may not be the warmest of people on the outside, but their
hospitality is undisputable. They found me scaling the castle wall, simply
wanting to have a look through a tower window, and politely invited me inside.
Now, of course it sounded like a trap, so there was a bit of a scuffle at
first, but it turned out they were genuine.

  
  

> They offered me the run of the castle, to explore, research and investigate
to my heart's content. Occasionally I run into one of them and they greet me
pleasantly enough. I have been reading all manner of fascinating books, and my
understanding of the Glitch is growing.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=48)]

#### 5.1.5. A Message to all Glitch Guards ¶

  

> We have tolerated the Outcasts at a distance, with the understanding that
they do not infiltrate our most precious of sanctums; our castles, our homes,
our underground fight clubs. Outcasts have infiltrated all these places. They
loiter around, saying words, and having opinions. It is disconcerting and
disruptive.

  
  

> Our goodwill can only last so long. They are corrupting many of our number
and severing their link with the central consciousness. As such, any Outcast
spotted in a designated safe zone must be immediately arrested and sent to the
laboratories for repurposing.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=49)]

#### 5.1.6. A Slight Misunderstanding ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl Adventurer  
Due to my frequent attempts at cultural sensitivity, I decided to try and
integrate myself with my hosts even more. While exploring the castle, I found
a number of decorative suits of armour that appear to depict warrior Glitch.
Naturally, to make my companions comfortable, I put a set on.

  
  

> The armour was hard to walk in, so I lost my balance a few times. I came
tumbling down the stairs and into the main hall, and all Glitch eyes were on
me. Rather than the warm greeting I deserved, however, they began to chatter
and yell. I heard the words 'Anger' and 'Disgust' a number of times. And then
they began to chase me.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=50)]

#### 5.1.7. The Prefix Problem ¶

  

> by Hiraki Corale, Hylotl Adventurer  
Let it never be said that I do not attempt to integrate with whichever hosts I
find myself indebted to. I have noticed that when addressing me, the Glitch
use prefix words. Examples: 'Dismissive', 'Annoyed', 'Sarcastic' and
'Frustrated'. Feeling as if this is a custom I should celebrate, I have begun
to partake in such linguistic frippery myself.

  
  

> 'Delight. It is nice to see you.' I said, but the Glitch just looked at me
strangely, and then said something to his friend. I noticed something here,
too. When the Glitch address each other, they do not use these prefix words.
Perhaps something in their programming means they can read each others' tones
without explanation.

  
  

[[edit](http://rigvedawiki.net/r1/wiki.php/%EC%8A%A4%ED%83%80%EB%B0%94%EC%9A%B
4%EB%93%9C/%EB%AC%B8%EC%84%9C?action=edit&section=51)]

### 5.2. 글리치 마을(Glitch Vilages) ¶

